
# SwEnt Milestone 1 Feedback

This first milestone M1 serves as a checkpoint at which we provide you with formal feedback on how you are coming together as a team, organizing yourselves, adopting good software engineering practices, and making progress toward delivering incremental value to your users. This is meant to complement the informal, ungraded feedback from your coaches given during the weekly meetings or asynchronously on Discord, email, etc.

The goal of our evaluation is not to assess whether you are top-tier Android developers or software testers, this will be assessed in earnest in subsequent milestones, once you've had the opportunity to gain experience and acquire the relevant skills. You can find the evaluation criteria in the [M1 Deliverables](https://github.com/swent-epfl/public/blob/main/project/M1.md) document.

We looked at several aspects, grouped into three categories: app design, app quality & delivery, and Scrum.

- [App Design](#app-design)

  - [Architecture](#architecture)

  - [Implementation](#implementation)

  - [Figma](#figma)

  - [UI](#ui)

- [Quality & Delivery](#quality-&-delivery)

  - [Automated Testing](#automated-testing)

  - [Automated Delivery](#automated-delivery)

  - [End-to-End Application Behavior](#end-to-end-application-behavior)

- [Scrum](#scrum)

  - [Documents](#documents)

  - [Backlogs & Planning](#backlogs-&-planning)

# App Design

## Architecture

We looked at the high-level design of your app. We checked whether the UI, data layer, and corresponding dependencies are present. We evaluated whether your architecture diagram is of good quality and reflects the architecture of the app.

The UI & data layer are present. However dependencies are missing, like for example google maps.

For this part, you received 4 points out of a maximum of 5.

## Implementation

We looked at several implementation aspects, such as whether authentication is done safely, whether all sensitive data is properly safeguarded using crypto and secure APIs, and whether the permissions requested by your app are truly needed.

The location are stored safely (using firebase). Try continuing using firebase or another secured storage to have a secure database.
Locations are asked but they are essential to the app.

For this part, you received 5 points out of a maximum of 5.

## Figma

We reviewed how you used Figma in these first Sprints of your project. We took into account whether you had done wireframes and mockups, whether these contained the main application flows and the core features, and whether the screens were linked. Overall, we wanted to see whether it's clear how the pieces work together.

Try putting the wireframe on figma for next time. Having it on the wiki is not enough.
The mockup does not contain most possible user flows. Try add all possible future user flows and mockups for the future sprints.
The screens that are present are linked in a good way.

For this part, you received 12 points out of a maximum of 15.

## UI

We checked whether the elements of your app's UI are consistent (fonts, colors, etc.) and whether the layout is responsive (i.e., adapts to different screen sizes and orientations).

The chat screen looks inconsistent with the rest of the app. Try keeping it clearer. Also the icons look differently when being in different screens. Try unifying them.
The layout is indeed responsive. The rotation is allowed while the UI is not fully supported.

For this part, you received 3 points out of a maximum of 5.

# Quality & Delivery

## Automated Testing

We looked at whether you configured your CI to integrate with Sonar, whether your CI passes, and of course whether your CI automatically runs the test suite. Then we checked the statement coverage achieved by your test suite. We also looked at whether you have at least one meaningful UI test per screen, one meaningful unit test per repository, one meaningful unit test per view-model, and one meaningful end-to-end test.

The CI runs a wrong sonarcloud quality gate which makes it fail. Try changing it for a custom one so it passes with 80% of line coverage.
All the UI have a test. Maybe try testing a bit more the functionality of the screens.
All repositories have a meaningful test. Try to store the tests in the a location (put repository tests on test folder and not androidtests folder)
The viewModels have many meaningful tests. Good job!
There is no end-to-end test.

For this part, you received 26 points out of a maximum of 33.

## Automated Delivery

We checked whether you have set up your CI to automatically build the APK, and it does so successfully. We also wanted to see if the APK could be installed and run on a real device.

The M1 release is present but the "Build with gradle workflow" does not pass. Try looking into it.
The app works and is functional. Maybe try to explicitly show when a screen is not functional.

For this part, you received 4 points out of a maximum of 7.

## End-to-End Application Behavior

We then interacted with your app manually, this was fun. We flagged any problems we encountered, such as crashes or bugs, and we classified the bugs into minor vs. major bugs.

The map does not seem to show even if it asks localization.

For this part, you have been penalized -1 points.

# Scrum

## Documents

The main things we looked for was whether you documented your team Retrospective and Stand-Up in a timely and thorough manner.

You did not use the sheets we gave you to do the standup meetings. Try using them for next sprints
The team retrospective is completed througthly, but not standup meetings.

For this part, you received 5 points out of a maximum of 10.

## Backlogs & Planning

We analyzed your product backlog, Sprint 3 backlog, and the Scrum board. For the PB, we checked whether it was up-to-date and whether you had populated it with user stories for the first epic and for a second epic. For the Sprint 3 backlog, we looked at whether it was up-to-date and whether the task descriptions were clear. We looked at whether tasks were assigned, whether they had a time estimate, and whether they had a priority. Finally, we evaluated whether your
Scrum board was up-to-date and ready for Sprint 3.

It is difficult to differentiate user stories from first and second epic. Try putting a tag on the user stories so we can differentiate them one from another.
Some tasks are marked as "Done in Sprint2" in the scumboard even if they are not closed.

For this part, you received 18 points out of a maximum of 20.

Based on the above points, your intermediate grade for this milestone M1 is 4.80. If you are interested in how this fits into the bigger grading scheme, please see [project README](https://github.com/swent-epfl/private/blob/main/project/README.md) and the [course README](https://github.com/swent-epfl/public/blob/main/README.md).

Your coaches will be happy to discuss the above feedback in more detail.

Good luck for the next Sprints!
