# Milestone M2: Team Feedback

This milestone M2 provides an opportunity to give you, as a team, formal feedback on how you are performing in the project. By now, you should be building upon the foundations set in M1, achieving greater autonomy and collaboration within the team. This is meant to complement the informal, ungraded feedback from your coaches given during the weekly meetings or asynchronously on Discord, email, etc.

The feedback focuses on two major themes:
First, whether you have adopted good software engineering practices and are making progress toward delivering value to your users.
Is your design and implementation of high quality, easy to maintain, and well tested?
Second, we look at how well you are functioning as a team, how you organize yourselves, and how well you have refined your collaborative development.
An important component is also how much you have progressed, as a team, since the previous milestone.
You can find the evaluation criteria in the [M2 Deliverables](https://github.com/swent-epfl/public/blob/main/project/M2.md) document.
As mentioned in the past, the standards for M2 are elevated relative to M1, and this progression will continue into M3.

We looked at several aspects, grouped as follows:

 - Design
   - [Features](#design-features)
   - [Design Documentation](#design-documentation)
 - [Implementation and Delivery](#implementation-and-delivery)
 - Scrum
   - [Backlogs Maintenance](#scrum-backlogs-maintenance)
   - [Documentation and Ceremonies](#scrum-documentation-and-ceremonies)
   - [Continuous Delivery of Value](#scrum-continuous-delivery-of-value)

## Design: Features

We interacted with your app from a user perspective, assessing each implemented feature and flagging any issues encountered. Our evaluation focused mainly on essential features implemented during Sprints 3, 4, and 5; any additional features planned for future Sprints were not considered in this assessment unless they induced buggy behavior in the current APK.
We examined the completeness of each feature in the current version of the app, and how well it aligns with user needs and the overall project goals.


The app contains complex features such as real time chat, push notifications, nearby friends and SMS that are fundamental for the app.

The features are often functional but have issue :
- Able to add "Martin V" as a friend twice
- No input verification on date for event, i.e (68/10/2000) is possible
- GPS location showed cordinate 0,0,0 as the location was authorized but not activated on device

The app development prioritizes impactful features that clearly benefits the app!


For this part, you received 6.3 points out of a maximum of 8.0.

## Design: Documentation

We reviewed your Figma (including wireframes and mockups) and the evolution of your overall design architecture in the three Sprints.
We assessed how you leveraged Figma to reason about the UX, ensure a good UX, and facilitate fast UI development.
We evaluated whether your Figma and architecture diagram accurately reflect the current implementation of the app and how well they align with the app's functionality and structure.


- Figma is up to date. To have more points you should keep Figma ahead of your app (parts of the UI that will be implemented soon should be present already; FIGMA FIRST, then implementation)
- Some features such as setting up an event are not really refined and could be improved
- Architecture diagram is not up to date (meeting component is missing) 


For this part, you received 4.2 points out of a maximum of 6.0.

## Implementation and Delivery

We evaluated several aspects of your app's implementation, including code quality, testing, CI practices, and the functionality and quality of the APK.
We assessed whether your code is well modularized, readable, and maintainable.
We looked at the efficiency and effectiveness of your unit and end-to-end tests, and at the line coverage they achieve.



- The codebase respects the MVVM pattern and is clean but lacks documentation
- The code coverage is below 80%

- The APK does not provide a smooth user experience as the following issues are present :
- Upon loading the overview, sometimes a profile (Martin V) appears and then it disappear.
- Double tapping the nav icon makes the screen flash white
- The chat icon from the bottom bar leads to an incomprehensible UI



For this part, you received 9.6 points out of a maximum of 16.0.

## Scrum: Backlogs Maintenance

We looked at whether your Scrum board is up-to-date and well organized.
We evaluated your capability to organize Sprint 6 and whether you provided a clear overview of this planning on the Scrum board.
We assessed the quality of your user stories and epics: are they clearly defined, are they aligned with a user-centric view of the app, and do they suitably guide you in delivering the highest value possible.


- User stories remain in the backlog even after completion
- The Sprint backlog contain some task with missing tags such as estimated time.
- All the user stories are still on the product backlog even if they have been implemented in the app
- Many issues marked as done in Sprints 5 and 4 remain open
- Tasks rarely contain descriptions


For this part, you received 2.2 points out of a maximum of 4.0.

## Scrum: Documentation and Ceremonies

We assessed how you used the Scrum process to organize yourselves efficiently.
We looked at how well you documented your team Retrospective and Stand-Up during each Sprint.
We also evaluated your autonomy in using Scrum.


- Sprint meeting document lack information such as sprint numbers, further confusing as there is 3 different google sheets, please a make single google sheet containing all the stand up and you should be using tabs for each stand noting the date and sprint #.
- Retrospective document for Sprint 5 is missing on the wiki
- The scrum meeting generally goes well
- The team struggles with self-management, with members being non-responsive


For this part, you received 2.6 points out of a maximum of 4.0.

## Scrum: Continuous Delivery of Value

We evaluated the Increment you delivered at the end of each Sprint, assessing your team’s ability to continuously add value to the app.
This included an assessment of whether the way you organized the Sprints was conducive to an optimal balance between effort invested and delivery of value.


- lacks consistency; in Sprint 3, only three tasks were completed, similar situation on sprint 4.
- Demos are rarely prepared


For this part, you received 1 points out of a maximum of 2.0.

## Summary

Based on the above points, your intermediate grade for this milestone M2 is 4.24. If you are interested in how this fits into the bigger grading scheme, please see the [project README](https://github.com/swent-epfl/public/blob/main/project/README.md) and the [course README](https://github.com/swent-epfl/public/blob/main/README.md).

Your coaches will be happy to discuss the above feedback in more detail.

Good luck for the next Sprints!
